---
layout: post
title:  "Solitude - The Only Good Reason to Be Alone"
---

Let's start with discriminates the meaning of lonely, loneliness, and solitude. In instance, lonely can be recognized as state, loneliness as feeling, and solitude as willing. To be a lonely is not always judged as loneliness. Likewise you can feel loneliness even you when you're surrounded by others.

As a graduate student and aboard, to feel loneliness is a commonplace. Even you've already blend into the social, speaking in the same language and eating the same food, you feel you are outsider. To be busy is the way to killing the loneliness, and also repelling quarter-life crisis questions as I've said before. But ya, sometimes it just comes.

Aristoteles said "Man is by nature just social animal,....". So do I. I enjoy to socialize with the others. Like, I am very excited to talk with undergraduate student on the lab *-not much, ocassionaly they're bussier than me haha-*, have a gathering on the weekend and meet new friend by joining hiking club. But I realize I need more time to be lonely than I was before. Alone to build my own ivory tower. I tend to isolate my self from outside and it's quite enjoyable.

In Japanese itself, we know the term of *wabi-sabi*, not *wasabi*!. It's the way to enjoy the aesthetic beauty of nature and should be done by solitude. Dealing with deep thinking it's same. You need to be alone to consider, to solve the problem *-which sometimes created even by yourself*-. Oh, I mean, this is for research matters.

But, someone have said that solitude it's not good for a long term, even you have a purpose on it. It will slowly bring you to the deadly loneliness sick. So, it's good to end this post and get sosialize out there. Bye.
